# Perspectives and conclusions

## Future

A third major version of *friday* is currently developed and available in the
*v0.3* branch of the GitHub source repository.

The main (breaking) change is that *friday* is now able to fuse more complex
algorithms: some algorithms are more efficient if they can "remember" some
values when generating pixels.

As an example, here is the pseudo-code of a simple algorithm that flip an
image over its vertical axis (like in a water reflection):

    for y in [0..h-1]:
        src_y = h - 1 - y

        for x in [0..w-1]:
            dst[y][x] = src[src_y][x]

The `src_y` value is constant for each line. It's not possible to "cache" such
value with a generating function as simple as `fromFunction`.

For this reason, *friday* has since the first version a more advanced generating
function that accepts two additional functions, one that generates constant line
values and one that generates column constant values. Manifest images are able
to use them for a long time but they were ignored by delayed images.

Fusing these two functions is way harder than fusing the pixel generating
function. You can't just give the output of the previous function in the
pipeline to the next function in the pipeline, because of index issues. By now,
it works in the developpement branch for simple algorithms (resizing,
thresholding ...) but it doesn't for filters (blurs, derivatives ...). Getting
every type right while remaining generic is quite an headache as a lot of
constraints are involved.

## Maintaining a public project is time consuming

Even if the project is quite young and experimental (the first public version
has been released one year ago), it's already used by some people.

I already received a dozen bug reports via the GitHub repository. There has not
yet been a single "true" bug. The received reports were about feature requests
or errors when the library was compiled on older systems. Some fixes may require
a few work hours and are rarely requested when you have time to spend on the
project.

I received two significant external contributions to integrate two new image
processing algorithms. But again, they required a significant amount of time to
be merged as I needed to rewrite some parts to fit the library's way of doing
things.

To deal with breaking changes, I had to start maintaining a *change log* and I 
had to start to develop in a separate "experimental" branch while maintaining a
"stable" branch.